The 2018 financial report of the European Union provides an overview of EU funding during that year and recalls key features of the EU budget. In June 2019 EU citizens demonstrated their growing interest in the future of Europe by voting in the European Parliament elections. For the first time in many years participation increased, and more than 50 % of the voting population expressed their preferences. The elections showed, however, the importance of explaining better what the EU is doing and what it delivers. This applies in particular to the EU budget. The EU budget allows the Union to make a big difference for millions of EU citizens by translating commonly agreed political ambitions into tangible results on the ground. 2018 was the fifth year of implementation of the current multiannual financial framework. One important priority was to provide a European response to the new challenges, from migration management to the protection of the EU’s external borders and the security of its citizens, and to simultaneously guarantee strategic investment and sustainable growth, to support economic cohesion and to create jobs, in particular for young people. The implementation of the EU budget in 2018 totalled EUR 173.1 billion in commitment appropriations and EUR 156.7 billion in payment appropriations. Nearly half of the funds (EUR 87.4 billion in commitments) were aimed at stimulating growth, employment and competitiveness. The European Fund for Strategic Investments, the Connecting Europe Facility and the European Structural and Investment Funds all had a major role to play. I invite you to discover the stories behind many EU investments on the InvestEU portal (https://europa.eu/investeu). The EU budget also offered strong support in other priority areas such as the EU’s comprehensive approach to migration, the security union, cutting-edge research, the EU’s external action and achieving cross-cutting policy objectives such as climate action and biodiversity. In 2018 the amount allocated to climate mainstreaming was more than EUR 32 billion, 20 % of the total budget.